---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

This week came the unveiling of Project 5: [Life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8kUJL04ELA)... Surprisingly not hugely different from Project 4, as another cell automata project. It has the same stipulation as last time, being disallowed from using any getter or setter in the implementation of the classes. It has the added necessity of using inheritance, due to a requirement to support two kinds of cells, even on the same grid. These specifications also necessitate the use of a handle class, which I've done previously in my Operating Systems class (to do something more complicated: automated reference counting), so the concept was not foreign to me. I've never implemented the Game of Life before, and coding it seems sort of like a rite of passage for computer scientists... I'm looking forward to getting it done.

Atlassian came to the class on Wednesday. I had some exposure to their stuff before, in my Automated Question Answering class this semester, as they've worked with teams of students building an IBM Watson tool to answer coding-related questions, using Atlassian's coding forums. It was cool to get more insight into the company itself and how their pipeline works, although it didn't altogether feel like a very unique message.

In class we've been learning about the nuances of inheritance, the different levels of access, and how to enable dynamic binding in C++ using the virtual keyword. Project 5 very much relies on these things.

#### Tip of the Week

For those interested in game development, here's an [interesting description](http://www.roguebasin.com/index.php?title=Cellular_Automata_Method_for_Generating_Random_Cave-Like_Levels) of an application of the sort of cell automata we're doing in Life put towards generating cave-like levels (even represented with a grid of dots); check it out.
