---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

This week has involved the unveiling of Project 3: 

Allocator. Making "a poor-man's heap," as Downing put it.

I'm not gonna lie, the unveiling of this project was seriously disappointing to me. When I signed up for OOP, I thought we would learn more about object-oriented concepts. The idea of the memory heap and what it looks like and how it is used, is all stuff I've encountered and covered in previous classes. And it isn't much of an opportunity to learn object-oriented design concepts and practices. So the project didn't excite me very much.

The things we're discussing in class similarly don't seem to cover a whole lot of object-oriented concepts. We largely go over how to implement particular things that exist in C++, using C++ syntax on pencil and paper (which is good in that, based on test 1, this practice is excellent test prep). It seems this class would more aptly be titled "Intro to C++" than "Object-Oriented Programming."

I did pretty decently on Test 1... Not as well as I thought I did though. Haven't gotten to see a TA about it yet. Hopefully that will be a positive learning experience. Not sure I like the accumulated-points methodology of grading, but I'm definitely a fan of reporting each student's Z-score. That, I think, is a very useful indicator for students (and also gamifies the grades a bit).

#### Tip of the Week

No matter how well or how badly you scored on Test 1, I highly recommend you go see the TAs and see what you did well and what you did wrong. Figuring out why will let you identify what you need to change and improve. If you don't figure out what you messed up and why, you can never learn from it. 
