---
layout: post
title: Week 7 (Midterm and Const)
---

This week was hectic, between juggling the OOP midterm, an OS project, an OS quiz, and a long math assignment all coinciding around the end of this past week, I'm surprised I made it out fairly unscathed.

I thought the midterm went pretty well. It was a fair reflection of the things we've gone over in class, and writing out function and class implementations in class was an excellent prep for the test, as the test was exactly the same format. I particularly liked that he showed some test code so you could see the usage of what you were supposed to write. I'm really not a fan of writing down code with pencil and paper, particularly since there's always gonna be some error you'll miss that a compiler will easily catch so that you can easily fix it. But without being able to compile, those little lame errors will remain. I hope those don't factor too much into the grade. But overall, I don't think it was too hard or too easy, and I know it was good practice for technical interviews. I also definitely appreciated the subsequent off-day from class. 

Earlier in the week we went over various uses of the `const` keyword, particularly with pointers. Downing had an amusing analogy for the different kinds of const/non-const pointers involving paintball guns, but I didn't think it was particularly useful for remembering which was which. A nice succinct summary Downing gave that stuck with me was:

- `int * p` == mutable int, mutable pointer

- `const int * cp` == immutable int, mutable pointer ("const" is closer to "int" than "*")

- `int * const pc` == mutable int, immutable pointer ("const" is closer to "*" than "int")

- `const int * const cpc` == immutable int, immutable pointer ("const" is closer to "*" than "int")

Note that `p` and `pc` can only point to non-`const` ints. In contrast, `cp` and `cpc` can point to either `const` or non-`const` ints, but can't ever modify what they point at, even if it's a non-`const` int. Also note that `pc` and `cpc` can only be initialized to a particular address and can never be assigned to a different address. In contrast, `p` and `cp` do not have to be intialized to a particular address and can be assigned to new addresses.  

#### Tip of the Week

Something that hadn't previously occurred to me before we noted this in class (and before a classmate posted a [link](https://lkml.org/lkml/2015/9/3/428) to Linus Torvalds ranting about this very mistake and how it caused serious bugs in their project) was the fact that arrays in C and C++ are passed into functions as pointers and NOT as arrays, so avoid putting arrays in the parameter list of any function, as it is extremely misleading.
