---
layout: post
title: Week 6 (Lambda Functions, more STL, more Iterator, and here comes Test 1)
---

This week Professor Downing showed us [lambda functions](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd293608.aspx), which provide "a convenient way of defining an anonymous function object right at the location where it is invoked or passed as an argument to a function." A peculiarity of lambdas (as opposed to other functions), is they have the ability to "capture" variables from outside the function for use inside the function (but this is separate from the parameters passed in). At first I thought having two ways to pass things into the function seems redundant, confusing, and arbitrary. But when I realized one of the main uses for lambdas, the ability to "capture" variables suddenly made perfect sense.

So what is the use for lambdas? There are plenty of STL algorithms that take a function as an argument and use that function to do some larger task, allowing that task to be very versatile. The first example we did in class was [all_of](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/algorithm/all_of/), which will take an iterator and a unary function as parameters, and then iterate over whatever the iterator is representing, calling the unary function on each item it finds and checking if every one of those calls returns true.

This algorithm is very generic and allows you to check lots of things about any structure that can be iterated over. You could call all_of(someListsIterator, isOdd) to check if everything in the list is odd. The isOdd() function would need to be written elsewhere though. Alternatively (and much more conveniently), you can write: all_of(list, [] (int w) -> bool {return w % 2;}).

( The format of a lambda is: [captures] (parameters) -> returnType {function body} )

You could call all_of(someVectorsIterator, isDivisibleBy(x)) after initializing an int x... or could you? The algorithm all_of is expecting a unary function to apply to every element in the vector, so how do you get the x variable to be in the scope of the function, since you can't pass it in? This is where capturing comes in. You can write: all_of(someVectorsIterator, [x] (int w) -> bool {return (w % x) == 0;}).

We additionally discussed the STL algorithm:

[T accumulate(II b, II e, T seed, BO binary_op)](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/numeric/accumulate/)

It starts with the seed, performing the binary_op on the seed and the element at b. It then does the binary_op on that result and the next element after b until b reaches e. With this you can multiply everything in a list (with a seed of 1) or add everything in a list (with a seed of 0), etc.

We also implemented a RangeIterator<T> class that could be used to iterate over a range of consecutive values. This gave the opportunity to go over the specific syntax of how to overload operators. A couple things to note:

- operator ++ () means the prefix increment.

- operator ++ (int) means the postfix increment.

- const can be used inside the parameter list to protect the caller's data from modification despite being passed by reference.

- const can be used after the parameter list and before the open brace to protect the object who owns the function from being modified.

#### Tip of the Week

Some advice for the test: since we're allowed to bring a typed, double-sided note sheet, don't waste your opportunity to put a large amount of useful information on the sheet! Building a very comprehensive note sheet can help solidify concepts in your brain (such that you may not even end up needing the note sheet), and if you forget some detail that you need, it will be right there with you for reference. HOWEVER, organize the note sheet well. You don't want to be wasting time rereading a bunch of text you wrote looking for some specific detail that you're spacing on. If necessary, cut out stuff from your note sheet that you don't think you'll need to make your note sheet as useful and easy to read as possible. But start out by putting too much stuff on it, because it'll help you remember and internalize the information.
