---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

This week came the close of Project 5: Life. While having a hefty time requirement, it was significantly more doable because of the large conceptual overlap it has with Project 4: Darwin. The fact that cells don't move on the grid, and instead just change state, ended up simplifying things as well. The reason that the time requirement was so hefty is the fact that we had to build four concrete classes with many member functions each (particularly if you created helper functions to help code readability). Many of the functions were quite trivial, but each function defined requires an average of 3 unit tests per project specs. I definitely appreciate the code coverage tool we've been using and always aim for 100% coverage before bothering to count the number of tests, as I think coverage is a better metric for the quality of tests than the count. I think I was at around 50-60 tests when I had 100% coverage. But to keep to the spec, I wrote 99 total unit tests. I understand that coverage isn't the only metric to consider and even with 100% coverage you likely aren't hitting every single possible case, but the extra 40-50 tests I wrote felt like quite a waste of time, particularly for a project of this small scope.

In class we've been continuing the discussion about the nuances of inheritance. We also discussed the concept of reflection and its usage in Java and C++. Particularly we learned about the Class class in Java, and its various uses.

#### Tip of the Week

Speaking of code coverage, here's an [interesting article](http://www.exampler.com/testing-com/writings/coverage.pdf) discussing how it is often misused; check it out.
