---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

This week came the close of Project 4: Darwin... This project involved about as much work as the previous three projects combined. This was the first time I paired up with a partner, and the first time I missed a deadline. The workload was a lot, but I don't think it was too much; rather I had gotten into a rhythm with the other three projects, expecting a certain workload, and this project caught me by surprise. From the outset of the project, I knew it would be more work, as Downing left more of the design than ever to us, and this was the first time the project required much use of object-oriented design. So my partner and I started as early as we could (unfortunately we're both in OS and the previous week had been entirely consumed by that and several other heavy-workload courses, so we started on Monday of the past week).

The project's open-ended nature was fairly neat, and more closely matched what I expected for this course. Being disallowed from using any getter or setter in our classes forced us to think carefully and cleverly about our design. Downing also had us create a UML diagram, which was interesting exposure to a tool used in industry, although I wish he had spent time teaching us how to use UML in class, rather than having us teach ourselves.

We had missed one critical detail on the project page while we worked for about eight hours straight on Monday: that Creature was required to store the direction. We were storing the direction in Darwin, and got all the code in Darwin.h and Darwin.c++ working with this design by the end of Monday. When my partner and I met back up on Wednesday, instead of moving on to writing unit tests, we had to start from square one, redesigning everything. We probably would have been done before the deadline were it not for this mistake. Personally I felt like our design with the direction stored in Darwin was more intuitive, as direction is relative to the world, and requires the world to have meaning, and Darwin is the only object with a view of the world. Creature doesn't know its own position nor can it see the world, but it knows what direction it's facing? Creature stores the direction but the only object that needs to know the direction (so it can know which location is "in front" of a particular Creature) is Darwin? Seems entirely unintuitive. What if you made a new Darwin grid that could be in three dimensions? Instead of just changing Darwin, you'd have to also change Creature's use of its stored direction.

#### Tip of the Week

Just ran across a [repository](http://www.cprogramming.com/tips/) of tips and tricks for C/C++ programming; check it out.
