---
layout: post
title: Week 5 of OOP (Generics, Iterators, JPL, and Project 2)
---

So, it's been a while since my last post, and the reason for that largely boils down to three words.

Honors Operating Systems.

If taking CS371P concurrently with CS378 Automated Question Answering with Dr. Porter as well as Structure of Modern Geometry and Intro to Ancient Rome wasn't challenging enough, I'm ALSO taking the infamous CS439H with Ahmed Gheith. Gheith is an amazing teacher, but Operating Systems has been incredibly challenging all by itself. I do NOT recommend taking this many classes alongside 439, for anyone who hasn't taken OS yet. However, OS and OOP have complemented each other nicely in the sense that OS involves considerable use of C++, and OOP drills in HOW to use C++, and its many characteristics and features. So I've had a bit of a headstart from my classmates in OS when it comes to C++. Particularly with the understanding of passing variables by reference, which I think Downing did a great job in teaching by emphasizing that the reference should be thought of as an ALIAS as opposed to a pointer, which Gheith still hasn't properly explained (although the students better have figured it out by now, because the project due today requires that understanding).

In class we've most recently talked about using generics and iterators to create algorithms that can be used on any data structure with an iterator. Downing has had us write an equals function, a copy function, and a fill function in class, after showing us how to set up a [template](http://www.codeproject.com/Articles/257589/An-Idiots-Guide-to-Cplusplus-Templates-Part). He also talked of the different types of [iterators](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/iterator/), and how different algorithms require different kinds of iterators. The kind of iterator depends on what actions you need the iterator to support for your algorithm to work.

Example: A forward iterator can only iterate in the forward direction, but if you want to implement an in-place reverse() function, you'd need an iterator that can iterate in both directions and swap the values it finds. For that you'd need a bidirectional iterator.

This week we had Alex Menzies visit the class from Jet Propulsion Laboratories. It was really cool to see some of the projects they had recently worked on, particularly in their use of gaming technology like Unity3D and Oculus. I've started using Unity for a couple personal projects and it's always cool to see a tool you've started picking up being used by a serious technology company. His discussion of Scrum and Agile practices in their company was good reinforcement of the related papers Downing has assigned to us.

Finally we come to [Project 2: Australian Voting](http://uva.onlinejudge.org/index.php?option=com_onlinejudge&Itemid=8&category=13&page=show_problem&problem=1083). I enjoyed the project, as it was a stimulating problem and got me exposed to the C++ STL, particularly with [lists](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/list/list/) and [vectors](http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/vector/vector/) and functions like emplace_back() which will add an element to the container and construct it on site, precluding the use of "new," and handling memory management for you. I also figured out that the particularly convenient for each loop that exists in Java also exists in C++11 (but not older versions). This made a lot of my logic much easier to write, although probably led to less efficiency.

But the close of Project 2 has been weird. I got an email that there was a problem with my SHA and that I needed to resubmit. The email very helpfully suggested that perhaps I had not pushed the commit in question or that part of the SHA may not have made it into the submission. I went onto github and saw that the commit I intended to submit was indeed pushed to the repo. I checked the SHA on the website right there and the SHA was the same as what was sent in the email. I went to my local repo clone, ran git fetch/pull, and again ran git rev-parse HEAD. The outputted SHA was again the same as the what was sent in the email, as would be expected. I went to Travis CI and pulled up the latest build, which showed a successful build. The SHA displayed on Travis was ALSO the same as the email. At this point I didn't know what the problem could be; I didn't have any issues submitting Project 1. I emailed the graders to this effect, and also went ahead and resubmitted, with the comment that nothing in this resubmission should be different from the original, and with the hope that it would be penalized as "late." The graders came back with the message that they didn't think I gave them access to my repo... I rechecked github, and I had given them access days ago. I responded that according to my github, they had access, and they responded that indeed that couldn't be the problem, that the problem was with the SHA, and that they'd get back to me. Very confusing. If anyone has any thoughts about what could be the issue, I'd appreciate the help.

Also, reflecting on this process, I think the 20% penalty for a submission, even if promptly resolved, is ridiculously harsh. In the business world, problems with "submissions" and the transferring of files happen all the time, and no one gets penalized for it; rather the expectation is that everyone involved pays attention, figures out the problem, and gets it resolved promptly and professionally. To that end, I believe that if a student quickly resolves a submission issue, there should be no penalty whatsoever. But in no way should this be equivalent to NOT submitting the assignment AT ALL for 24 hours beyond the deadline. With the current grading scheme, these two offenses are punished equally, which makes no sense to me. Just my two cents.

#### Tip of the Week

For any of you who would like to interact with a GUI when SSHing into the CS computers, rather than solely using command line, you can use [VNC Viewer](https://www.realvnc.com/download/viewer/) alongside SSH and connect to the CS computers that way. Instructions on how to do so are [here](http://www.science.smith.edu/~ejensen/vncssh.html).


